Update/docs (#543)
desmos-labs/desmos: docs/validators/migrating.md

# Migrating a validator
In some cases, you might want to move your running validator from one server to another. For example, this might be the case if you find a cheaper alternative or if your host does not meet the requirements.

> In this case, what you need to do is following a two steps procedure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, what you need to do is following a two-step procedure:
```

<!-- 1. Stop the current running validator and backup the data.
2. Setup the new server and transfer the backed up files to it.
3. Start the new node. -->

1. Set and fully sync up a fullnode
2. Migrate data from old node to new node

## 1. Setup new fullnode
To avoid as much missed blocks as possible it is recommended that you setup a new server and fully sync up a full node first. To do this,
you can read the guide [here](../fullnode/setup.md).

> Proceed to step 2 only if your new node is no longer catching up.

Reviewer: To avoid meaning the node is stopped.
```suggestion
Proceed to step 2 only if your new node has caught up.
```

```
desmos status 2>&1 | jq "{catching_up: .SyncInfo.catching_up}"
```

## 2. Migrate Data
### Stopping both the validator and the newly synced full node
In order to avoid as much side affects as possible we will be stopping both nodes.

```
systemctl stop desmos
```

### Backup the following data in the validator node

> In order to properly migrate our validator node to another server we will need to backup the following data(s):

Reviewer: `data` is plural.
```suggestion
In order to properly migrate our validator node to another server we will need to backup the following data:
```

1. The validator private key.
   This is located inside the `~/.desmos/config/priv_validator_key.json` file.

2. The validator consensus state.
   This is located inside the `~/.desmos/data/priv_validator_state.json` file.

> 3. If you keep your keys on the node make sure you have the mnemonic phrase associated with your key(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If you keep your keys on the node make sure you have the secret recovery phrase (mnemonic phrase) associated with your key(s).
```

<!-- :::warning Do not move them in to the new fullnode just yet
Back them up somewhere save but don't
::: -->

<!-- In order to properly transfer your validator to another server, you first have to stop the running node. To do this, you can execute the following command:

```
systemctl stop desmos
``` -->

<!-- Once you have done so, you need to back up the following data: -->

:::tip Do not delete your old node yet
We highly suggest you to delete your old node instance once that the new node is running properly. This will allow you to recover any information if you forgot to do so.
:::

> ### Migrating the data in to the fullnode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Migrating the data to the new fullnode
```

> With both nodes stopped we will be copying the backedup data in to the newly synced fullnode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With both nodes stopped we will be copying the backed up data in to the newly synced fullnode.
```

:::warning Warning

> At this point, both nodes should not be running. This is to prevent any possible side effects such as double signing

Reviewer: Do we have a page explaining `double signing` and the consequence? We can link to it if we do.

Author: At the moment, we do not

Reviewer: Ok

:::

> Transfer the following backed up files from the old node into the new one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transfer the following backed up files from the old node to the new one:
```

- `~/.desmos/config/priv_validator_key.json`
- `~/.desmos/data/priv_validator_state.json`

### Startup the new validator node

> Once you have moved your `priv_validator_key.json` and `priv_validator_state` into the newly synced fullnode it will be recognized as a validator node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have moved your `priv_validator_key.json` and `priv_validator_state.json`to the newly synced fullnode, it will be recognized as the same validator node.
```

> With the old validator node stopped, start up the new node:

Reviewer: How about a warning that the validator consensus key should only be online from a single instance? My usual practice is to remove or rename the key file in the old node to make sure even if the old node accidentally starts up, the validator key won’t be used.

```
sudo systemctl start desmos
```

:::tip Wait before deleting the old node
We suggest you to wait before deleting the old node. Instead of waiting only to see the blocks syncing, make sure your new node is actually signing blocks as your validator. You will see this by looking at your validator uptime on our [explorer](https://morpheus.desmos.network/validators). If everything is working properly, the uptime should slowly increase.
:::

### (Optional) Recover your key

> If you originally had your key in the previous server you can easily add it back using the mnemonic phrase you had backed up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you originally had your key in the previous server you can easily add it back using the secret recovery phrase (mnemonic phrase) you had backed up
```
